# TC-ANet: A Temporally Correlated Method for Post-Processing Ensemble Weather Forecasts

**TC-ANet** is a transformer-based ensemble weather forecast post-processing method. Using flow matching, it can generate temporally correlated forecasts for in-situ locations.

## Requirements

~~~
pip3 install matplotlib scikit-learn numpy xarray zarr netCDF4 tqdm Cartopy
pip3 install torch=2.11 --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu126
~~~

## Data Preparation

Download the per-station EUPPBench dataset (*EUPPBench-stations.zip*) from [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/records/7708362).

Extract the contents of the archive into the *dataset* subfolder.

Run the following two Python scripts:

~~~
python3 zarr2nc.py
python3 data_to_dataset.py
~~~

This will produce the required `.dst` dataset files and a station metadata `.json` file.

## Usage Example

To train, predict, or evaluate the model, first configure the *config.json* file:

1. **dataset_path**: The absolute path to the *dataset* subfolder.
2. **output_path**: The absolute path where the training and prediction outputs should be stored.
3. **evaluation_path**: The absolute path where the evaluation results should be stored.
4. **train_experiment_name**: A custom experiment label.
5. **predict_experiment_name**: The name of the folder inside *output_path* containing the desired model checkpoints to be used for prediction.
6. **dataset_type**: The dataset split to be used for prediction/evaluation: *train*, *valid*, *test*, *testf*.
7. **prediction_type**: The type of prediction generated by the model: *marginal*, *joint*.
8. **variable**: The target variable for training, prediction, or evaluation: *temperature*, *precipitation*, *wind*.
9. **evaluation_models**: A list of models to include in the evaluation procedure. *model_folder* denotes the name of the folder in *output_path* containing the selected predictions, *label* is the name of the model shown on generated graphics, and *prediction_type* specifies the type of forecast to evaluate (*joint*, *marginal*).

To train a model, run one of the training scripts:

~~~
python3 train_FLOW.py .
~~~

This creates a new folder inside *output_path* containing the trained model weights across multiple checkpoints.

To generate predictions, copy a specific checkpoint folder into a separate folder (*models/NEW_FOLDER/checkpointFolder*) inside *output_path*, set the *predict_experiment_name* field in *config.json* to the same name, and run one of the prediction scripts:

~~~
python3 predict_FLOW.py .
~~~

The *NEW_FOLDER* directory should now contain the relevant predictions, which can be evaluated by running the *evaluation.py* script after configuring *config.json* appropriately.
